Add "scopes" chapter. (#1040)
rust-lang/reference: src/names/scopes.md

1. [Extern prelude]
2. [Tool prelude]
3. [`macro_use` prelude]
4. [Standard library prelude]
5. [Language prelude]

## `macro_rules` scopes

The scope of `macro_rules` macros is described in the [Macros By Example] chapter.
The behavior depends on the use of the [`macro_use`] and [`macro_export`] attributes.

## Derive macro helper attributes

[Derive macro helper attributes] are in scope in the item where their corresponding [`derive` attribute] is specified.
The scope extends from just after the `derive` attribute to the end of the item. <!-- Note: Not strictly true, see https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/79202, but this is the intention. -->
Helper attributes shadow other attributes of the same name in scope.

## `Self` scope

Although [`Self`] is a keyword with special meaning, it interacts with name resolution in a way similar to normal names.

The implicit `Self` type in the definition of a [struct], [enum], [union], [trait], or [implementation] is treated similarly to a [generic parameter](#generic-parameter-scopes), and is in scope in the same way as a generic type parameter.

> For struct, enum, and unions, it is in scope starting after the generic parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For structs, enums, and unions, it is in scope starting after the generic parameters.
```

# Scopes

A *scope* is the region of source text where a named [entity] may be referenced with that name.
The following sections provide details on the scoping rules and behavior, which depend on the kind of entity and where it is declared.
The process of how names are resolved to entities is described in the [name resolution] chapter.

> More information on "drop scopes" used for the purpose of running destructors maybe be found in the [destructors] chapter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
More information on "drop scopes" used for the purpose of running destructors may be found in the [destructors] chapter.
```

The name of an item declared as a [statement] has a scope that extends from the start of the block the item statement is in until the end of the block.

It is an error to introduce an item with a duplicate name of another item in the same [namespace] within the same module or block.
[Asterisk glob imports] have special behavior for dealing with duplicate names and shadowing, see the linked chapter for more details.
Items in a module may shadow items in a [prelude](#prelude-scopes).

Item names from outer modules are not in scope within a nested module.
A [path] may be used to refer to an item in another module.

### Associated item scopes

[Associated items] are not scoped and can only be referred to by using a [path] leading from the type they are associated with.
[Methods] can also be referred to via [call expressions].

Similar to items within a module or block, it is an error to introduce an item within a trait or implementation that is a duplicate of another item in the trait or impl in the same namespace.

## Pattern binding scopes

The scope of a local variable [pattern] binding depends on where it is used:

> * [`let` statement] bindings range from just after the `let` statement until the end of the block where it is declared.

Reviewer 2: should this mention shadowing?

Author: I would prefer not to add too many up-front qualifications so it doesn't obscure the statements being made. Shadowing is mentioned immediately afterwards, which applies to all of the pattern binding sites.  

One problem with defining something (like Rust) is that one needs to take into consideration the whole of the document, which includes many refinements and clarifications on previously stated things (and to make it worse, those interactions can be a tangled web).  It can be a difficult balance to warn a reader about upcoming qualifications, since to some degree it would be repeating what is about to come next.

* [Function parameter] bindings are within the body of the function.
* [Closure parameter] bindings are within the closure body.
* [`for`] and [`while let`] bindings are within the loop body.

> * [`if let`] bindings are within the consequent block.

Reviewer 2: is "consequent" a technical term here? Trying to figure out whether this implies that it goes out of scope in the `else` block.

Author: Yea, the consequent block is the block immediately after the conditional expression. It is defined in https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/reference/expressions/if-expr.html.  Else blocks are called "else blocks".

    foo(); // prints `function`
    let foo = || println!("closure");
    fn foo() { println!("function"); }
    // This resolves to the local closure since it shadows the item.
    foo(); // prints `closure`
}
```

## Generic parameter scopes

Generic parameters are declared in a [_GenericParams_] list.
The scope of a generic parameter is within the item it is declared on.

All parameters are in scope within the generic parameter list regardless of the order they are declared.
The following shows some examples where a parameter may be referenced before it is declared:

```rust
// The 'b bound is referenced before it is declared.
fn params_scope<'a: 'b, 'b>() {}

# trait SomeTrait<const Z: usize> {}
// The const N is referenced in the trait bound before it is declared.
fn f<T: SomeTrait<N>, const N: usize>() {}
```

Generic parameters are also in scope for type bounds and where clauses, for example:

```rust
# trait SomeTrait<'a, T> {}
// The <'a, U> for `SomeTrait` refer to the 'a and U parameters of `bounds_scope`.
fn bounds_scope<'a, T: SomeTrait<'a, U>, U>() {}

fn where_scope<'a, T, U>()
    where T: SomeTrait<'a, U>
{}
```

> Generic scopes do not extend into [items] declared inside a function.

Reviewer 3: This is kind of a philosophical question, but they do extend (*), it's just an error to use a parameter from an outer item.

(*) until a `mod` item is encountered, which is a true barrier for names.

Author: That seems to be an implementation choice, though?  Like, the choice is:

1) Generic names do not extend into an inner item. Using a parent name will be a "name not found" error.
2) Generic names do extend into an inner item, but can be shadowed. Using a parent name without shadowing it will be a "can't use generic parameter from outer function" error.

I felt like the first approach was a little easier to explain, even if that's not how `rustc` works (which I see as just a way to provide better errors, or maybe just easier to implement).

That being said, I reworded it to say it is an error.

### Generic parameter shadowing

It is an error to shadow a generic parameter.

> Items declared within functions are allowed to reuse generic parameter names from the function because generic scopes do not extend to inner items.

Reviewer 3: The motivation after "because" is artificial.
This is allowed because shadowing of names is allowed in general, items in inner scopes can shadow items from outer scopes, et cetera.

The restrictions on generic parameters that appear in some cases are exceptions.
They exist for historical reasons, but technically nothing prevents removing them at any moment.

Author: I reworded this a bit.

```rust
fn example<'a>() {
    // Items within functions are allowed to reuse generic parameter in scope
    // because all generics are not in scope within inner items.
    fn inner<'a>() {} // OK
}
```

```rust,compile_fail
trait SomeTrait<'a> {
    fn example<'a>() {} // ERROR: 'a is already in scope

> }

Reviewer 3: It would be good to add type and const parameters to these examples.
I'm not actually sure that the rules here are enforced consistently for all of them.

Author: I'm not aware of any inconsistent rules, but if any come to mind, let me know.

# }
# trait Trait2<'a> {}
#
# struct Example;
#
# impl Trait1 for Example {
#     type Item = Element;
# }
#
# struct Element;
# impl<'a> Trait2<'a> for Element {}
#
// The `impl Trait2` here is not allowed to refer to 'b but it is allowed to
// refer to 'a.
fn foo<'a>() -> impl for<'b> Trait1<Item = impl Trait2<'a>> {
    // ...
#    Example
}
```

## Loop label scopes

[Loop labels] may be declared by a [loop expression].
The scope of a loop label is from the point it is declared till the end of the loop expression.
The scope does not extend into [items], [closures], [async blocks], [const arguments], [const contexts], and the iterator expression of the defining [`for` loop].

```rust
'a: for n in 0..3 {
    if n % 2 == 0 {
        break 'a;
    }
    fn inner() {
        // Using 'a here would be an error.
        // break 'a;
    }
}

// The label is in scope for the expression of `while` loops.
'a: while break 'a {}         // Loop does not run.
'a: while let _ = break 'a {} // Loop does not run.

// The label is not in scope in the defining `for` loop:
'a: for outer in 0..5 {
    // This will break the outer loop, skipping the inner loop and stopping
    // the outer loop.

>     'a: for inner in { break 'a; 0..1 } {

Reviewer 3: Fascinating.

1. [Extern prelude]
2. [Tool prelude]
3. [`macro_use` prelude]
4. [Standard library prelude]
5. [Language prelude]

## `macro_rules` scopes

The scope of `macro_rules` macros is described in the [Macros By Example] chapter.
The behavior depends on the use of the [`macro_use`] and [`macro_export`] attributes.

## Derive macro helper attributes

[Derive macro helper attributes] are in scope in the item where their corresponding [`derive` attribute] is specified.
The scope extends from just after the `derive` attribute to the end of the item. <!-- Note: Not strictly true, see https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/79202, but this is the intention. -->
Helper attributes shadow other attributes of the same name in scope.

## `Self` scope

Although [`Self`] is a keyword with special meaning, it interacts with name resolution in a way similar to normal names.

The implicit `Self` type in the definition of a [struct], [enum], [union], [trait], or [implementation] is treated similarly to a [generic parameter](#generic-parameter-scopes), and is in scope in the same way as a generic type parameter.
For structs, enums, and unions, it is in scope starting after the generic parameters.

> For traits and implementations, it is in scope starting just before the generic parameters.

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure that this difference is not a bug.
The original implementation of `Self` is for traits and impls, and it is certainly correct.

Author: I think I made a mistake here, I'm not sure what I was thinking at the time.  Perhaps I got confused by [this code](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/blob/f9b2e3c87b76c03cc398be8b8f65d096c0583eb2/compiler/rustc_resolve/src/late.rs#L1082-L1094), but based on [this](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/blob/f9b2e3c87b76c03cc398be8b8f65d096c0583eb2/compiler/rustc_resolve/src/late.rs#L1532-L1554) I'm almost certain that struct/enum/union have the same behavior as traits and impls.

```rust
struct S<T: Into<Self>> { // OK
    f1: T,
}
```

I have pushed an update, does that seem correct?
